readme.md, before:

# How to install

### Install ros2:

https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html


### Install ros control:
```
sudo apt install ros-humble-ros2-control
```

### Install ros topic based control:
https://github.com/PickNikRobotics/topic_based_ros2_control/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file
```
sudo apt install ros-humble-topic-based-ros2-control
```

### Install python dependencies:
```
pip3 install python-can
```
```
pip3 install pyserial
```
```
pip3 install numpy
```

### Navigate to folder /src:
```
sudo rosdep init
```
```
sudo rosdep update
```
```
sudo rosdep install --from-paths ./ -i -y --rosdistro ${ROS_DISTRO}
```
# How to integrate robot
Navigate to the control ros2 control .xacro file and in the \<hardware> section include topic based plugin together with topic definition for state and command:
```
<plugin>topic_based_ros2_control/TopicBasedSystem</plugin>
<param name="joint_commands_topic">/mks_servo_joints_cmd</param>
<param name="joint_states_topic">/mks_servo_joints</param>
```
Topics use sensor_msgs/JointState.msg format

# How to configure driver
In src/manipulator_servo_driver/manipulator_servo_driver/driver.py file specify joint count of your robot by modifying JOINT_CNT variable. Interfaces with servos are created automatically with IDs in ascending order and starting with ID 1.

#### Alternatively you can specify interfaces manually by replacing:
```
self.servos = [ MksServo(self.bus, self.notifier, i+1) for i in range(self.JOINT_CNT) ]
```
with:
```
self.servos = [
    MksServo(self.bus, self.notifier, 1),
    MksServo(self.bus, self.notifier, 5)
]
```
where the last argument specifies servo CAN ID.

#### From the project root directory, run a script to configure can0 interface while the canable is connected to the usb
```
sudo sh ./scripts/configure_can.sh
```

#### You can now check if the can0 interface shows up correctly by calling
```
ifconfig
```


# How to build
In workspace root
```
colcon build
```
```
source install/setup.bash 
```

# How to run
```
ros2 run manipulator_servo_driver mks_interface 
```

# How to use
By default, the driver is in standby mode (mode 0). In this mode joint states are published and all commands are ignored.

Mode can be changed by calling mks_servo_change_mode service:
```
ros2 service call /mks_servo_change_mode python_driver_interfaces/srv/ChangeMode "{mode: 1}"
```
Don't forget to source the workspace before running the command.

#### Driver supports 3 different modes:
- 0 - Standby (joint states are published, command are ignored)
- 1 - Position (joint states are published, position commands are used) 
- 2 - Speed (joint states are published, velocity commands are used)  

#### Driver also allows user to reset the servo axis to 0 by calling:
```
ros2 service call /mks_servo_reset_axis python_driver_interfaces/srv/ResetAxis
```


# How to run test demo
This demo works with at least 2 servos connected i.e. JOINT_CNT in driver should be 2.
```
ros2 launch ros2_control_demo_example_1 rrbot.launch.py 
```

# Limitations
During testing we have observed that servos continue to run even when the communitacion is lost.

Commit message:

Use local mks_servo sources

readme.md, after:

# How to install

### Install ros2:

https://docs.ros.org/en/humble/Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians.html


### Install ros control:
```
sudo apt install ros-humble-ros2-control
```

### Install ros topic based control:
https://github.com/PickNikRobotics/topic_based_ros2_control/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file
```
sudo apt install ros-humble-topic-based-ros2-control
```

### Install python dependencies:
```
pip3 install python-can pyserial numpy
```

### Navigate to folder /src:
```
sudo rosdep init
```
```
sudo rosdep update
```
```
sudo rosdep install --from-paths ./ -i -y --rosdistro ${ROS_DISTRO}
```
# How to integrate robot
Navigate to the control ros2 control .xacro file and in the \<hardware> section include topic based plugin together with topic definition for state and command:
```
<plugin>topic_based_ros2_control/TopicBasedSystem</plugin>
<param name="joint_commands_topic">/mks_servo_joints_cmd</param>
<param name="joint_states_topic">/mks_servo_joints</param>
```
Topics use sensor_msgs/JointState.msg format

# How to configure driver
In src/python_driver/python_driver/driver.py file specify joint count of your robot by modifying JOINT_CNT variable. Interfaces with servos are created automatically with IDs in ascending order and starting with ID 1.

#### Alternatively you can specify interfaces manually by replacing:
```
self.servos = [ MksServo(self.bus, self.notifier, i+1) for i in range(self.JOINT_CNT) ]
```
with:
```
self.servos = [
    MksServo(self.bus, self.notifier, 1),
    MksServo(self.bus, self.notifier, 5)
]
```
where the last argument specifies servo CAN ID.

#### It is also important to specify can channel by changing *channel* argument:
```
self.bus = can.interface.Bus(interface='socketcan', channel='can0', bitrate=125000)
```

# How to build
In workspace root
```
colcon build
```
```
source install/setup.bash
```

# How to run
```
ros2 run manipulator_servo_driver mks_interface 
```

# How to use
By default, the driver is in standby mode (mode 0). In this mode joint states are published and all commands are ignored.

Mode can be changed by calling mks_servo_change_mode service:
```
ros2 service call /mks_servo_change_mode python_driver_interfaces/srv/ChangeMode "{mode: 1}"
```
Don't forget to source the workspace before running the command.

#### Driver supports 3 different modes:
- 0 - Standby (joint states are published, command are ignored)
- 1 - Position (joint states are published, position commands are used) 
- 2 - Speed (joint states are published, velocity commands are used - currently very dangerous with the hardware)  

#### Driver also allows user to reset the servo axis to 0 by calling:
```
ros2 service call /mks_servo_reset_axis python_driver_interfaces/srv/ResetAxis
```


# How to run test demo
This demo works with at least 2 servos connected i.e. JOINT_CNT in driver should be 2.
```
ros2 launch ros2_control_demo_example_1 rrbot.launch.py 
```

# Limitations
During testing we have observed that servos continue to run even when the communication is lost.
